what is DNS?

DNS (Domain Name System) provides a simple way for us to communicate with devices on the internet without remembering complex numbers.
 An IP address looks like the following 104.26.10.229, 4 sets of digits ranging from 0 - 255 separated by a period. 
 


Domain Hierarchy

TLD (Top-Level Domain)

A TLD is the most righthand part of a domain name. So, for example, the tryhackme.com TLD is .com. There are two types of TLD, gTLD (Generic Top Level) and ccTLD (Country Code Top Level Domain).


Second-Level Domain

Taking tryhackme.com as an example, the .com part is the TLD, and tryhackme is the Second Level Domain. When registering a domain name, the second-level domain is limited to 63 characters + the TLD and can only use a-z 0-9 and hyphens (cannot start or end with hyphens or have consecutive hyphens).

Subdomain

in the name admin.tryhackme.com the admin part is the subdomain
it should have only 63 chars and use 1-z 0-9 and hyphens
we can  subdomains split with periods to create longer names
But the maximum length must be kept below 253 characters
There is no limit to the number of subdomains you can create for your domain name.

63
_
253
ccTLD



DNS Record Types

DNS isn't just for websites though, and multiple types of DNS record exist. We'll go over some of the most common ones that you're likely to come across.

A Record

These records resolve to IPv4 addresses, for example 104.26.10.229

AAAA Record

These records resolve to IPv6 addresses, for example 2606:4700:20::681a:be5

CNAME Record

These records resolve to another domain name, for example, TryHackMe's online shop has the subdomain name store.tryhackme.com which returns a CNAME record shops.shopify.com. Another DNS request would then be made to shops.shopify.com to work out the IP address.

MX Record

These records resolve to the address of the servers that handle the email for the domain you are querying, for example an MX record response for tryhackme.com would look something like alt1.aspmx.l.google.com. These records also come with a priority flag. This tells the client in which order to try the servers, this is perfect for if the main server goes down and email needs to be sent to a backup server.

TXT Record
TXT records are free text fields where any text-based data can be stored. TXT records have multiple uses, but some common ones can be to list servers that have the authority to send an email on behalf of the domain (this can help in the battle against spam and spoofed email). They can also be used to verify ownership of the domain name when signing up for third party services.

MX
AAAA

How do DNS makes a req

first we type the name of the website in the browser it then searched in the local cache if you have previously searched for the website or not if not a request to the recursive DNS server is made and it is mostly provided by the isp and it see whereit is has the IP of the website or not! id no redirects the req to the root dns server where it redirects you to the authorative servers according to the respective TLD like if your website is .com it will redirect you to the AUthoritative server which is also known as the nameservers like kip.ns.cloudflare.com and this will search for the domain you are searching for as it is responsibkle for storing the dns records of a particular domain name and where any where any updates to your domain name DNS records would be made. Depending on the record type, the DNS record is then sent back to the Recursive DNS Server, where a local copy will be cached for future requests and then relayed back to the original client that made the request. DNS records all come with a TTL (Time To Live) value. This value is a number represented in seconds that the response should be saved for locally until you have to look it up again. Caching saves on having to make a DNS request every time you communicate with a server.

ttl
recursive
authoritative


CNAME lookup from terminal command

nslookup --type=CNAME shop.website.thm

shops.myshopify.com

TXT record

nslookup --type=TXT website.thm
 
"THM{7012BBA60997F35A9516C2E16D2944FF}"


MX record priority value

 nslookup --type=MX website.thm
 30
 
 for IP address for the A record 
 
 nslookup --type=A wwww.website.thm
 
 Address: 10.10.10.10
 
 
 
